Add troubleshooting scenarios for kubevirt disconected (HCP) (#6519)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: clusters/support_troubleshooting/trouble_mirror_rhcos_image.adoc

[#trouble-mirror-rhcos-image]
= Troubleshooting the RHCOS image mirroring failure

For hosted control planes on {ocp-virt} in a disconnected environment, oc-mirror fails to automatically mirror the Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) image.

[#symptom-mirror-rhcos-image]

> == Symptom: Mirroring of the RHCOS image fails

Reviewer: I'd suggest to rephrase this: the mirroring of the RHCOS boot image for Kubevirt is not really failing but it's not going to be attempted at all by oc-mirror.
This means that `oc-mirror` process will successfully complete with no errors but later on the VM will fail to boot since their OS is not there.

The oc-mirror plugin does not mirror the {op-system-first} image from the release payload to the internal registry.

[#identifying-mirror-rhcos-image]
== Resolving the problem: Manually mirror the RHCOS image to internal registries

You need to manually mirror the RHCOS image from the release payload to the internal registry. Complete the following steps:

. Get the mirror registry name by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc get imagecontentsourcepolicy -o json | jq -r '.items[].spec.repositoryDigestMirrors[0].mirrors[0]'
----

. Get a payload image by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc get clusterversion version -ojsonpath='{.status.desired.image}'
----

. Extract a payload image. Replace `<installer_coreos_bootimages.yaml>` with a file that contains boot images. Run the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc image extract --file /release-manifests/<installer_coreos_bootimages.yaml> <payload_image> --confirm

> ----

Reviewer: `<installer_coreos_bootimages.yaml>` is `always 0000_50_installer_coreos-bootimages.yaml`, no need to have the cluster admin looking for it.

. Get the RHCOS image by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----

> cat <installer_coreos_bootimages.yaml> | yq -r .data.stream | jq -r '.architectures.x86_64.images.kubevirt."digest-ref"'

Reviewer: same

----

. Mirror the RHCOS image to your internal registry by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----

> oc image mirror <rhcos_image> <mirror_registry_name>/<local_images>/<rhcos_image>%@sha256*##*/

Reviewer: `<local_images>` can be a fixed pattern but it has to be used also in the ImageDigestMirrorSet.
`%@sha256*##*` was intended to skip whatever after `@sha256` (including `@sha256` itself) in bash variable expansion. It will never work like this.

Reviewer: Let me provide a complete example here:
```bash
# virthost.ostest.test.metalkube.org:5000/localimages/local-release-image@sha256:a21f3f3f3c77414b0c611c7b3e8fe301dfae0eb6a765a4c4f8305c8acee9258d is the OpenShift release image as mirrored to the internal registry
# virthost.ostest.test.metalkube.org:5000 is the address of the internal registry
# localimages is a path that the user can potentially replace with a custom string
oc image extract virthost.ostest.test.metalkube.org:5000/localimages/local-release-image@sha256:a21f3f3f3c77414b0c611c7b3e8fe301dfae0eb6a765a4c4f8305c8acee9258d --path /release-manifests/0000_50_installer_coreos-bootimages.yaml --confirm
# /release-manifests/0000_50_installer_coreos-bootimages.yaml is a fixed path that is never going to change
oc image extract virthost.ostest.test.metalkube.org:5000/localimages/local-release-image@sha256:a21f3f3f3c77414b0c611c7b3e8fe301dfae0eb6a765a4c4f8305c8acee9258d --file /release-manifests/0000_50_installer_coreos-bootimages.yaml --confirm
# this will return the pull URL of the image we want to mirror, in my example quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-v4.0-art-dev@sha256:d9643ead36b1c026be664c9c65c11433c6cdf71bfd93ba229141d134a4a6dd94
cat 0000_50_installer_coreos-bootimages.yaml | yq -r .data.stream | jq -r '.architectures.x86_64.images.kubevirt."digest-ref"'
# quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-v4.0-art-dev@sha256:d9643ead36b1c026be664c9c65c11433c6cdf71bfd93ba229141d134a4a6dd94 should be splitted intro fragments to compose a command like:
oc image mirror quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-v4.0-art-dev@sha256:d9643ead36b1c026be664c9c65c11433c6cdf71bfd93ba229141d134a4a6dd94 virthost.ostest.test.metalkube.org:5000/localimages/ocp-v4.0-art-dev
# where quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-v4.0-art-dev@sha256:d9643ead36b1c026be664c9c65c11433c6cdf71bfd93ba229141d134a4a6dd94 is the pull URL as extracted from the file
# virthost.ostest.test.metalkube.org:5000 is the internal registry
# localimages is a string for the path that the user can customize but it should be consistent across the whole process
# ocp-v4.0-art-dev is the name of the image as the last piece of the pull URL before @sha256, this should match what extracted from the file
# finally the cluster admin should apply a matching ImageDigestMirrorSet:
oc apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: config.openshift.io/v1
kind: ImageDigestMirrorSet
metadata:
  name: rhcos-boot-kubevirt
spec:
  repositoryDigestMirrors:
    - mirrors:
        - quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-v4.0-art-dev
      source: virthost.ostest.test.metalkube.org:5000/localimages/ocp-v4.0-art-dev
EOF
```

Reviewer: I still think that `oc image mirror <rhcos_image> <mirror_registry_name>/<local_images>/<rhcos_image>%@sha256*##*/` line here should be fixed.
The expected command is something like:
`oc image mirror quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-v4.0-art-dev@sha256:d9643ead36b1c026be664c9c65c11433c6cdf71bfd93ba229141d134a4a6dd94 virthost.ostest.test.metalkube.org:5000/localimages/ocp-v4.0-art-dev`
where `quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-v4.0-art-dev@sha256:d9643ead36b1c026be664c9c65c11433c6cdf71bfd93ba229141d134a4a6dd94` is  `<rhcos_image>`  as referenced (including the sha digest) in `0000_50_installer_coreos-bootimages.yaml` while `virthost.ostest.test.metalkube.org:5000/localimages/ocp-v4.0-art-dev` is the new name on the internal registry and it should not include the digest.

[#trouble-mirror-rhcos-image]
= Troubleshooting the RHCOS image mirroring

> For hosted control planes on {ocp-virt} in a disconnected environment, oc-mirror fails to automatically mirror the Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) image to the internal registry.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For hosted control planes on {ocp-virt} in a disconnected environment, `oc-mirror` fails to automatically mirror the Red Hat Enterprise Linux CoreOS (RHCOS) image to the internal registry.
```

We seem to use backticks for it throughout the doc so I recommend doing the same here

Reviewer 3: Yes, this should be coded. If this was translated, it would not make sense in another language. The tics tells the translator that it is part of the code.

[#symptom-mirror-rhcos-image]

> == Symptom: oc-mirror fails to attempt the RHCOS image mirroring

Reviewer 4: We're trying to give shorter titles. If "to attempt" is needed, then keep it. That is, if the failure only happens because of an attempt. Otherwise, consider shortening to something like: 

```suggestion
== Symptom: oc-mirror fails the RHCOS image mirroring
```

Author: https://github.com/stolostron/rhacm-docs/pull/6519#discussion_r1634843840 I will go with keeping the title as is, per SME's comment

> == Symptom: oc-mirror fails to attempt the RHCOS image mirroring

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Symptom: _oc-mirror_ fails to attempt the RHCOS image mirroring
```

> The oc-mirror plugin does not mirror the {op-system-first} image from the release payload to the internal registry.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `oc-mirror` plugin does not mirror the {op-system-first} image from the release payload to the internal registry.
```

Author: per slack discussion, keeping as is.

Reviewer 3: This should be coded.

> [#identifying-mirror-rhcos-image]

Reviewer 4: shouldn't the title match the anchor? 

So the anchor could be something like: 

```suggestion
[#resolving-mirror-rhcos-image]
```

Reviewer 3: The format for these files should always be the same. If there is no resolving or work around, then it is not t-shooting. If identifying the problem is troubleshooting then it is resolving.

> == Resolution: Manually mirror the RHCOS image to the internal registry

Reviewer 2: You are missing the `Identifying the problem` section. Take a look at one of our existing troubleshoot topics and just copy the format: https://github.com/stolostron/rhacm-docs/blob/2.11_stage/troubleshooting/trouble_already_exists.adoc

Note that the title has to be the same for each of the 3 sections.

Reviewer 3: If we don't have one, resolution is more important. Not all the files have them, we will chat about this.

> == Resolving the problem: Manually mirror the RHCOS image to the internal registry

Reviewer 4: Again with an optional change to the heading since we're trying to make them shorter: 

```suggestion
== Resolution: Manually mirror the RHCOS image
```

Reviewer 2: **Resolving the problem** is correct for troubleshooting.

> To resolve this issue, manually mirror the RHCOS image by using the payload image to the internal registry. Complete the following steps:

Reviewer: The goal is to know the address of the missing image (the RHCOS boot image for KubeVirt that got skipped in the oc-mirror process) so that we cluster admin can manually/directly mirror it.
In order to do that, he is going to extract and inspect a specific file from the release payload image that got previously mirrored with oc-mirror.

> You need to manually mirror the RHCOS image by using the payload image to the internal registry. Complete the following steps:

Reviewer 4: To make it clear this action is to resolve something, consider rephrasing to the following: 
```suggestion
To resolve this issue, manually mirror the RHCOS image by using the payload image to the internal registry. Complete the following steps:
```

Reviewer 3: I don't agree with this one as much because the header is enough, so those words are extra. It's not wrong either way but I want to emphasize that the header is the important aspect here. The header is what is read in an accessibility situation. That is why the anchor and the title need to be similar.

This should be **resolving** in the anchor. @xenolinux

. Get the internal registry name by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc get imagecontentsourcepolicy -o json | jq -r '.items[].spec.repositoryDigestMirrors[0].mirrors[0]'
----

. Get a payload image by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc get clusterversion version -ojsonpath='{.status.desired.image}'
----

> . Extract the payload image into the `0000_50_installer_coreos-bootimages.yaml` file that contains boot images. Replace `<payload_image>` with the name of your payload image. Run the following command:

Reviewer: this is now misleading: this is not going to extract the whole `<payload_image>` into a file, but just a file named `/release-manifests/0000_50_installer_coreos-bootimages.yaml` from that image to local filesystem.
`0000_50_installer_coreos-bootimages.yaml` then contains the reference to the RHCOS boot image for KubeVirt.

Author: Ok. Reverted the instruction.

> . Extract the `0000_50_installer_coreos-bootimages.yaml` file that contains boot images and the payload image. Replace `<payload_image>` with the name of your payload image. Run the following command:

Reviewer 4: Separate steps? And what does running the following command do? Correct me if I'm mistaken, but see the possible revisions: 

```suggestion
. Extract the `0000_50_installer_coreos-bootimages.yaml` file that contains boot images and the payload image. 
. Replace `<payload_image>` with the name of your payload image by running the following command:
```

Author: The command extracts the payload image into the `0000_50_installer_coreos-bootimages.yaml` file. Updated the step as such.

Author: The command extracts the payload image into the `0000_50_installer_coreos-bootimages.yaml` file. Updated the step as such.

Author: IMO, two separate steps are not needed here because users need to enter payload image in the extract command. Also the instruction is updated.

Reviewer 3: replacing an item in a command is part of the step, you cannot run the command until you replace the item.

> . Extract the payload image and the `0000_50_installer_coreos-bootimages.yaml` file that contains boot images. Replace `<payload_image>` with the name of your payload image. Run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Extract file `0000_50_installer_coreos-bootimages.yaml` from the release payload image you intend to use on the hosted cluster. That file contains the list of boot images. Replace `<payload_image>` with the name of your payload image. Run the following command:
```

Author: Done

+
[source,bash]
----
oc image extract --file /release-manifests/0000_50_installer_coreos-bootimages.yaml <payload_image> --confirm
----

. Get the RHCOS image by running the following command:

+
[source,bash]
----
cat 0000_50_installer_coreos-bootimages.yaml | yq -r .data.stream | jq -r '.architectures.x86_64.images.kubevirt."digest-ref"'
----

> . Mirror the RHCOS image to your internal registry. Replace `<rhcos_image>` with your RHCOS image for example, `quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-v4.0-art-dev@sha256:d9643ead36b1c026be664c9c65c11433c6cdf71bfd93ba229141d134a4a6dd94`. Replace `<internal_registry>` with the name of your internal registry, for example, `virthost.ostest.test.metalkube.org:5000/localimages/ocp-v4.0-art-dev`. Run the following command:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. Mirror the RHCOS image to your internal registry. Replace `<rhcos_image>` with your RHCOS image for example, `quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-v4.0-art-dev@sha256:d9643ead36b1c026be664c9c65c11433c6cdf71bfd93ba229141d134a4a6dd94`. Replace `<internal_registry>` with the name of your internal registry, for example: `virthost.ostest.test.metalkube.org:5000/localimages/ocp-v4.0-art-dev`. Run the following command:
```

Author: keeping this as is.

Reviewer 3: so the command here should be first, no? Then we tell the user what to replace?

Run the following command to _____. Replace x with y.

This line: Replace `<internal_registry>` with the name of your internal registry, for example: 

Consider clarity for a screen reader:

Replace `<internal_registry>` with the name of your internal registry, as displayed in the following example: 

or

Replace `<internal_registry>` with the name of your internal registry. For example, see the following internal registry.

(it's not wrong, it just doesn't tell the user what follows the colon)

Author: Per slack discussion - keeping this as is because we need a colon in the end of this command.

+
[source,bash]
----
oc image mirror <rhcos_image> <internal_registry>
----

. Create a YAML file named `rhcos-boot-kubevirt.yaml` that defines the `ImageDigestMirrorSet` object. See the following example configuration:

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.openshift.io/v1
kind: ImageDigestMirrorSet
metadata:
  name: rhcos-boot-kubevirt
spec:
  repositoryDigestMirrors:
    - mirrors:
        - <rhcos_image_no_digest> <1>
      source: virthost.ostest.test.metalkube.org:5000/localimages/ocp-v4.0-art-dev <2>
----

+

> <1> Specify your RHCOS image without its digest, for example, `quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-v4.0-art-dev`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
<1> Specify your RHCOS image without its digest, for example: `quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-v4.0-art-dev`.
```

Author: keeping this as is.

> <2> Specify the name of your internal registry, for example, `virthost.ostest.test.metalkube.org:5000/localimages/ocp-v4.0-art-dev`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
<2> Specify the name of your internal registry, for example: `virthost.ostest.test.metalkube.org:5000/localimages/ocp-v4.0-art-dev`.
```

Author: I see more instances of `for example,` in the repo. keeping this as is.

Reviewer 3: Yeah, I will chat about that in the meeting. It's not wrong, it's just not the most accessible in either of these examples.
